
Dear Cllr Hemingway,

 

UK Power Networks delivers the electricity to homes and businesses across London the East and South East of England, including Knebworth, and it’s our job to make sure that the lights stay on. 

 

Since 2010 we have reduced the frequency of power cuts by 42%, however we recognise that while power cuts are less frequent, when they do still occur they can be very worrying, especially to older people, people with chronic medical conditions or parents of very young children.  That’s why we have set up a ‘Priority Services Register’ to enable us to identify vulnerable people quickly in the event of a power cut and get them the help they need.

 

You can find more about our free Priority Service Register, including information about who is eligible to register at: ukpowernetworks.co.uk/internet/en/power-cuts/priority-services-during-a-power-cut/

  

This winter we are keen to increase the number of people who are registered for help so we can provide the support they need quicker in case of a power cut.  We are therefore asking for the help of local councillors to encourage constituents, who may be eligible for help, to join the Priority Services Register.

 

How you can help:

 

1.     Encourage people to register using Social Media.

Suggested text:

Do you or someone you know need extra help if there’s a power cut?

Join the Priority Services Register today ukpowernetworks.co.uk/prioritysupport

 

2.     Include information about the Register in your next ward newsletter.  

Suggested text:

Do you or someone you know need extra support during a power cut?

Although power cuts don’t happen very often when they do they can be worrying.  UK Power Networks is the electricity network and it provides a ‘Priority Services Register’ for people who might need extra help in a power cut.  Older people, families with very young children, and people with specific medical conditions are among the many people who are eligible to register for free support.  You can find more details and register by visiting ukpowernetworks.co.uk/prioritysupport or calling 0800 169 9970.

 

I hope you will help us to help your constituents get the support they need and please do send me a copy of your newsletter if you include information about the Register, so we can share it as an example of good practice.

 

In the meantime, if you would like any further information about the Register or about UK Power Networks please do not hesitate to contact me.

 

Best wishes

Peter

 

 

Peter Kocen

Public Affairs Manager

 
 # Great British Spring Clean 
 





Heroes wanted for the Great British Spring Clean!.eml
Subject: 
Heroes wanted for the Great British Spring Clean!
From: 
Keep Britain Tidy <news@KeepBritainTidy.org>
Date: 
05/12/2016 20:05 +1100
To: 
Steve Hemingway <steve.hemingway@north-herts.gov.uk>

Heroes wanted - sign up now!
The Great British Spring Clean website
 
Our biggest-ever litter campaign, the Great British Spring Clean is coming, and we are looking for half a million litter heroes to help clean up our country.

The #GBSpringClean will take place from March 3-5, 2017, and is being supported by, among others, TV naturalist and writer Steve Backshall, the BAFTA award-winning Deadly 60 presenter.
 

'"Litter dropped in a British street is a horror show for wildlife, so many animals are injured and even die from the things we throw away. This is such an important issue and I’m proud to be supporting Keep Britain Tidy and their campaign – the Great British Spring Clean.” 

Steve Backshall
 
The campaign is being backed by the RSPCA, the Marine Conservation Society, Keep Wales Tidy, McDonald's, Greggs, Harrogate Spring Water, Lidl, Costa and many other organisations.

We need your help to make your neighbourhood and our country a place we can all be proud of. Sign up now and spread the word to your friends, family and colleagues.
 
Sign up and get involved
 
The Great British Spring Clean
 
	
The Great British Spring Clean is a campaign led by Keep Britain Tidy. Registered Charity No. 1071737. Registered as a Company limited by guarantee in England & Wales No. 3496361. Registered office at Elizabeth House, The Pier, Wigan, WN3 4EX
Unsubscribe
 
