
If you have a business with a rateable value under £200,000 and you have received an increase in your business rates of 12.5% you may be eligible for discretionary rate relief. There is a web form on the NHDC website which can be used to apply. 

The Examination in Public of the Welwyn Hatfield Local Plan has started: the first meeting was scheduled for the 21st Sept. North Herts are somewhat behind its southerly neighbour, but the examination of its plan is imminent. The Local Development Scheme states that it should be complete by the end of December.

The NHDC Corporate Plan was approved at the Council Meeting this month. It has, in addition to specifying how the Council plans to deliver its objectives, a useful set of statistics about the District. In common with most of the UK, the population of the District is getting older, but by a huge relative amount in the case of some age groups. The number of residents who are 90 years or older is expected to increase by around two and a half times by 2037, for example. Inevitably, this will lead to an even greater increase in number of unpaid carers, some of whom are themselves elderly. Around 2,500 residents (out of a total of 131,000) say they already provide 50 hours or more of unpaid care per week.

Although the Council handed its housing stock over to North Herts Homes in 2004, it still has a duty to help homeless individuals and families find somewhere to live. It strives to avoid housing people, even temporarily, in bed and breakfast accommodation, but occasionally it has to resort to this. The Housing Options Team are very experienced at helping those who are worried about being made homeless, and work closely with agencies such as Herts Young Homeless and the Citizens Advice Bureau. 

Although the Council does not provide any social housing, it does administer the Common Housing Allocation Scheme ('CHAS') and the Common Housing Register jointly with North Herts Homes. This allows people to apply for social housing via a single register, even though there are a significant number of housing associations which operate in North Herts in addition to North Herts Homes. To find out more, search for 'Common Housing Register' in the NHDC website or call 01438 474000 and ask to speak to the Housing Dept.

Negotiations on the new Waste and Street Cleaning Contract are at an advanced stage. The contract will form the agenda for a joint meeting of the NHDC Cabinet and EHDC Executive Committee on Monday 16th October. For more details see the NHDC website. All Cabinet meetings are open to the public.





